---
title: "Mini-project reflection"
date: 2023-03-31
---
For the mini-project, a programming language called Java was used to create an application named Smart Fridge Recipe App. The Smart Fridge Recipe App is designed to assist users in preparing recipes using the ingredients available in their refrigerator.  With this app, users can choose a recipe from a list of available options and view the necessary ingredients. The app then verifies if the user has all the required ingredients in their fridge. In case the user lacks any ingredient, the app will generate a shopping list for the user to acquire the missing ingredients. 
The system consists of two primary components: an extensive inventory of pantry items along with their corresponding quantities, and a compilation of recipes. In other words, The Smart Fridge system is designed to assist users in meal planning by utilizing the ingredients they already have in their pantry. It simplifies the process of grocery shopping by eliminating the need for users to manually check their pantry items before heading out. Additionally, the system ensures that users always have the necessary ingredients on hand to prepare the recipes of their choice.
It basically has two major files:
1. [Contents](https://github.com/Srihitha2/Software-Engineering/blob/main/codes/Smartfridgecontents.java)
Here we are defining a class named SmartFridgeContents that contains two static variables: pantry and recipes. The pantry variable is a HashMap that maps String keys (the name of the item) to Integer values (the quantity of the item). The recipes variable is also a HashMap that maps String keys (the name of the recipe) to another HashMap containing the ingredients and quantities needed to make the recipe. The put() method in this code is used to add key-value pairs to the HashMap.
2. [Program](https://github.com/Srihitha2/Software-Engineering/blob/main/codes/Smartfridgeprogram.java)
This program imports the pantry and recipes maps from another module, SmartFridgeContents. It also initializes an empty shoppingList map. Here we initialized a dictionary named displayDict that maps the names of the recipes to their respective indices. It then enters an infinite while loop that continuously prompts the user to select a recipe from the list of available options until the user enters "0" to exit the loop. If the user enters an invalid input, the program will catch the NumberFormatException and display an error message instructing the user to enter a valid number. If the user enters a valid choice, the program will display the name of the selected recipe and its list of required ingredients. It will then check the pantry for each required ingredient and determine if enough of each item is available. If any ingredient is found to be insufficient or not available, the program will add it to the shopping list with the required quantity. After the user has selected all the desired recipes, the program will display the shopping list with the required ingredients and their corresponding quantities. If the shopping list is empty, the program will display a message indicating No items to order!.

For this project, skills I have learnt that were used are Exception handling, in the program we used try-catch blocks to handle exceptions. The Map interface and HashMap class to store and manipulate data. Having knowledge on this was quite helpful. Also, nested classes and control structures were used in this program. Control structures such as if statements, for loops, and while loops are used to implement the program logic and flow. 

Based on my experience with this project, it seems that I could benefit from further improving my skills in working with Maps and Exception Handling. Additionally, it's worth to spend extra time in debugging.

The most challenging aspect for me in this project was working with Map interface and HashMaps to store and manipulate data.
